How to run transformation
=========================

Forward transformation
  Right-click the launch configuration file test/myClassDiagram2myRelational-forward-launch
  and select Run as -> myClassDiagram2myRelational-forward-launch
  
  Full ATL model is stored in myRelational.xmi
Editing target model
  Open myRelational.xmi using text editor, edit and save.
  For example, capitalize the part of the name of the column "Person_family", like 
    "PERSON_family", and save.
    Only the edits to the part that overlaps with 
     myClassDiagram2myRelational-trace/myRelational-normal.xmi
    is subject to backpropagation.
  

  Standard graphical editor cannot be used because the editor has side effects to
    remove some implicit attributes that is necessary for GRoundTram.

Backward transformation
  Right-click the launch configuration file test/myClassDiagram2myRelational-backward-launch
  and select Run as -> myClassDiagram2myRelational-backward-launch

How to create another example
=============================

  Copy current org.eclipse.m2m.atl.atlgt.example.simpleclass2relational 
  and edit full ATL transformation, input model XMI and input/output Ecore metamodel.
  Edit the *-{forward,backward{-launch file to reflect the file names 
  you have created, by right-clicking these file and select "Run configurations ...".
  Model element identifiers are explicitly serialized as xmi:id attribute 
  if they are provided by the user. If already exists, then they are not overwritten.

Artifacts
=========

  User-level artifacts
  transformation/  : transformation-related files that are independent of 
                     input/output models

    ClassDiagram.ecore:          Source metamodel 
    Relational.ecore:            Target metamodel 
    ClassDiagram2Relational.atl: ATL Transformation 

  test/ : files prepared for each input model
    myClassDiagram.xmi:                          Input model
    myClassDiagram2myRelational-forward.launch:  Launch configuration for forward transformation
    myClassDiagram2myRelational-backward.launch: Launch configuration for backward transformation
    myRelational.xmi:                             Output model (created after forward transformation)

  System-internal artifacts
    myClassDiagram2myRelational-trace/
      Internal files for ATL-GRoundTram synchronization
      [Metamodels]
       {ClassDiagram,Relational}.km3: metamodels in KM3 format for GRoundTram
       {ClassDiagram,Relational}-relaxed.{ecore,km3}:
	   Metamodels with mandatory features made optional to enable
	   GRoundTram to generate submodels of the target models of ATL transformations

      [Transformations]
       ClassDiagram2RelationalIds.atl:
	   ATL transformation augmented with stable model element ID generation facility
       ClassDiagram2RelationalIdsProjected.atl:
	   ATL transformation with untranslatable part projected away
       ClassDiagram2RelationalIdsProjected..unql:
	   UnQL transformation translated from the ATL transformation

      [Models]
	 myRelational.xmi:
	   Target model generated by full ATL transformation (copy of the file in the parent directory with with the same name)
	 myRelational-partial.xmi
	   Target submodel generated by partial ATL transformation
	   This model shows the region within which the updates are backpropagated by GRoundTram. It is identical to the one generated by GRoundTram after running the forward graph transformation, but since the transformation takes time, it is generated separately to give users the submodel before completion of the graph transformation.

	 myClassDiagram.dot:
	   Graph generated by myClassDiagram.xmi. It is directly transformed by the UnQL transformation.
	 myRelational.dot:
	   Target graph generated by the UnQL transformation.
	 myRelational-normal.dot:
	   Graph as a result of normalizing myRelational.dot
	     (bisimilar nodes are contracted into one)
	 myRelational-normal.xmi
	   Target sub model generated by the GRoundTram from the previous DOT file.
	 myClassDiagram2myRelational.{ei,xg}
	   Housekeeping files to hold trace information of GRoundTram


      [Names of the automatically generated file]
         <Metamodel>-relaxed.{ecore,km3} is generated from <Metamodel>.ecore
           by relaxing cardinality of mandatory features.
         <Transformation>Ids.atl is generated from <Transformation>.atl
           by instrumenting code for stable model element ID generation
         <Transformation>Projected.atl is generated from <Transformation>.atl
           by projecting away the untranslatable parts based on rule-additivity.
         <Model>.dot and <Model>.xmi are bidirectionally generated from each other.
         <Model>-normal.dot is generated by <Model>.dot by bisimulation contraction.
         <Model>-partial.xmi is the submodel of the full target model <Model>.xmi
         <Transformation>.unql is generated by translating <Transformation>.atl
         <Transformation>.{ei,xg} stores trace of UnQL transformation 
           <Transformation>.unql 